
Consulting Analyst
Date:  Jun 12, 2026
Location:

Overland Park, KS, US Phoenix, AZ, US Houston, TX, US Chicago, IL, US Charlotte, TX, US Tampa, FL, US
Company:  Black & Veatch Family of Companies

We believe real value is powered by the unique skills and experiences of our professionals. The interchange of ideas from a diverse group of people gives our teams an expanded perspective and the ability to find better solutions for our clients.



Company : Black & Veatch Corporation

Req Id : 114914

Job Title : Consulting Analyst

Location : KCP, RGCHARLOT, RGCHCG, RGHOUSTON, RGPHNX, RGTAMP

Business Unit Sector : COR-STRGW-INFRA ADV DELIVERY

Department: BVCOR - IA ANALYST

Opportunity Type : Staff

Relocation eligible : No

Full time/Part time : Full-Time

Project Only Hire: No

Visa Sponsorship Available:No

Recruiter : Joseph S. Raschke


The Opportunity

We are seeking an Analyst in Black & Veatch’s Infrastructure Advisory Business to support our rapidly growing business. As an Analyst, you will have the opportunity to:

    Contribute to delivering projects for a wide range of clients, including water, electric, and gas utilities, oil and gas clients, data centers and other commercial clients.

    Develop core consulting skills through a range of training, structured mentoring, and project exposure.

    Gain experience in a wide range of areas, including strategy and planning, digital and AI/ML, asset management, system implementations (including Operational Technology, Enterprise Asset Management, Advanced Metering Infrastructure), and asset engineering.

The Team

Black & Veatch’s Infrastructure Advisory Business provides a portfolio of solutions focused on the asset lifecycle, including Asset Management & Operations & Maintenance, Infrastructure Technology, Cybersecurity Solutions, and Planning and Transactions.

As an Analyst you will be part of the Analyst Team supporting projects across multiple solutions. The Analyst Team is a diverse team of early-career professionals who are given a wide range of technical projects and skills to equip them to have a solid foundation and move into a specific career track as they advance and develop their skills and capabilities.
Key Responsibilities

Under close supervision, perform routine foundational aspects of business, technical, technology or digital consulting requiring knowledge and application of basic principles. Apply knowledge of basic consulting attributes and technical expertise to complete project assignments.

    Collect, analyze and interpret quantitative and qualitative data to provide insights, identify trends, opportunities and risks.
    Under close supervision, prepare reports, presentations, processes, tools, models, and other client- ready deliverables, demonstrating attention to detail, clarity, and logical structure.
    Participate in client meetings and workshops to support the project team with presentation, facilitation, and note taking.
    Recognize and apply appropriate technical methods to diagnose issues and develop solutions, and engage technical subject matter experts to fill knowledge gaps.
    Begin developing professional judgment through exposure to industry practices and guidance from senior team members.
    Understand and adhere to budget, schedule, and quality requirements. Demonstrate accountability for delivering assigned work on time and to expected quality standards.
    Collaborate with team members and subject matter experts to ensure high-quality deliverables and successful project outcomes. Escalate risks, issues, or questions in a timely manner.
    Stay current with industry trends, emerging technologies and best practices. Develop knowledge and experience in specific specializations and industries (minors) and participate in professional development opportunities. Share current knowledge of latest technology and processes.
    Develop foundational knowledge across IA solution areas and industries, with expectations to build depth in a specialization over time. Demonstrate learning agility and curiosity in acquiring new skills and tools.

Management Responsibilities
Individual Contributor
Preferred Qualifications

    Bachelor of Arts or Science, preferably in business, technology, data science or engineering OR relevant business experience.
    0-2 years experience in business/consulting environment.
    All applicants must be able to complete pre-employment onboarding requirements (if selected) which may include any/all of the following: criminal/civil background check, drug screen, and motor vehicle records search, in compliance with any applicable laws and regulations.
    Internship or other work experience on an engineering project or in an engineering or consulting environment preferred.
    Preferred Skills:
        Ability to develop functional or technical knowledge in at least one target industry
        Ability to develop functional or technical knowledge in at least one solution area
        Decision making abilities such as provide insight on issues of more than one dimension
        Human relations skills including collaboration and team functions
        Knowledge of Microsoft Office Suite and other generally accepted software for the business
        PC literacy with applied knowledge
    Preferred Consultant Skills:
        Demonstrates curiosity and initiative in learning new tools, technologies, and industry concepts
        Ability to break down problems into logical components with guidance
        Produces high-quality work products with strong attention to detail
        Communicates clearly in written and verbal formats
        Works effectively in team-based, deadline-driven environments

Minimum Qualifications
Bachelor of Arts or Science, preferably in business, math, or engineering OR relevant business experience. 0-2 years experience in business/consulting environment. All applicants must be able to complete pre-employment onboarding requirements (if selected) which may include any/all of the following: criminal/civil background check, drug screen, and motor vehicle records search, in compliance with any applicable laws and regulations.

Certifications
Work Environment/Physical Demands

This position will be based out of Black & Veatch office location within the United States. 

Hybrid or flexible work options may be offered after the first 90 days of employment based upon manager discretion, job performance and work assignments.

This position will require individuals to work within confined spaces at times.
Competencies
Action oriented
Customer focus
Interpersonal savvy